what's up everybody welcome back to
another episode of 100 days of SEO my
name is Brendan huffard I help SEO
clients ranging from 90 million dollar
venture-backed startups to bloggers
making 100k month local window washers
and real estate agents and interior
designers and I'm so excited because
today I'm gonna explain to you exactly
how I got my first big clients starting
out in one of my previous videos you can
check in the link below I explained the
whole idea behind how I wrote proposals
but I just want to talk to you about how
to find these clients how do you find
your first 5 to 10k a month client let's
get it alright what's up everybody
Brendan here we are in my computer we're
gonna do something a little bit
different today we're just going to kind
of do a screen share and a walkthrough
of exactly how I find exactly how I
provide value for without doing a ton of
work and exactly how I position myself
as an expert to corporate SEO clients
one of the places I love to start a lot
of people start with a Google search
trying to find these um I think that's a
mistake you're missing a huge
opportunity by look starting with a
Google search you find people who are
already ranking now there's some ways
around that you can look at people who
are running ads but not also ranking I
think that's a good start but for
corporate SEO clients I like to look in
the yellow pages because you can get
some good details so I'm looking here in
Chicago Illinois that's the main
industry that I operate in let's say I
want to look for like engineering right
I want to look for an engineering firm
or something similar so I drop that in
we're gonna take a look at the results
here I see like True Value elite
Electrical Contractors and what I'm
looking for here is I'm looking at the
reviews but what's really cool is
something that goes a little bit deeper
so I know from my my background that
while local matters I also love
industries where I know that there's a
lot of money to be made and I've kind of
happened on this one document
destruction company so let's take a look
at this company Wow
alright so two things really stand out
to me here number one no reviews in
Yellow Pages interesting but they're
paying for Yellow Pages preferred which
means they're spending money on
marketing and they've been in business
for thirty six years this looks like a
prime candidate let's see what they're
doing over on their website Oh Oh No
Oh No look at this is oh I love it the
paper shreds
it actually shreds over there on the
left okay all right great this is
perfect
first of all the website isn't secure
they don't even have a free let's
encrypt like SSL certificate they just
have DD their page title is not
optimized it says document destruction
company it's cool that their company
name does talk about what they do I love
those like very obvious names but this
website is straight out of 1997 I know
that's because kind of when I started
looking at websites right so my point is
here's what I want to do I want to find
somebody with really bad on-page SEO
definitely start there that's where you
can provide the most value upfront and
here's how I would take a look at it so
we found somebody this is a prime
candidate now we have to provide value
and here's the way I do that make sure
you're writing this down so the way that
I'm gonna pitch them and the way I'm
gonna reach out to them is I'm just
gonna send them a quick email just to
say hey I put together a report about
your website I think there's a lot of
opportunity would you like me to send it
to you or if you're a little more salesy
and you understand how to close clients
I have some videos on that closing SEO
clients even if you're just starting out
if you're more savvy you can reach out
to them and say hey do you have time for
a 15-minute free strategy call I think I
have some opportunities for your website
show you've done your homework talk
about like I know you've been in
business for 36 years you obviously
provide a really good service right it's
almost impossible to reach the 20 year
mark in business and if they've reached
if they've been in business for 36 years
and they're paying for Yellow Pages
preferred they clearly are doing
something right so I I would always
start with that I would reach out to
them first and if they reply and say
they want to get on a call if they reply
and they say send me the you know send
me the report that you've put together
then you put together the report I
wasted so much time early on putting
together reports and getting no response
and then it's like do I just send it to
them like it's kind of thirsty
so those are when you're starting out
you're gonna have to hustle and grind to
get those first couple clients and get
that momentum until you have case
studies that you can send them
that's a great way to follow up hey I
sent you this thing we had this talk I
also want to send you this case study of
another business similar to yours and
the results that we got them that's
great so I would start there make sure
they're interested get them on the hook
first for a call or get into at least
commit to say yes send me the report and
then put this together two things I want
to notice right away right it's not
secure the website also I love to just
take the window and drag it over okay
that's not responsive at all like that's
that's a mess that's in it that's a
straight and as expected right so those
things are gonna be really important
letting them know they're missing out
and every single person who's looking
for them on mobile letting them know
that their website isn't secure so it
kind of shames them in search but here's
it what else I want to do I want to find
ones with a bad kind of on-page SEO I
could dig into you know we could do a
little inspect here I can open up the
page source next to it let's take a look
there
it's nothing even here so there's
obviously some big issues going on with
this website the next thing I want to do
is I want to pop open screaming frog now
if you're brand new you can just go to
screaming frog Co dot uk'
if you're brand new you're just starting
out you can use this for free it'll
crawl up to 500 pages it's more than
enough for getting out your first
pitches until you get enough paying
clients you can afford to pay for I get
this question all the time Brendon what
SEO tools should I use the answer is if
you're worried about getting them for
free or whatever if you don't have $100
a month for 8 refs
you don't need HR F's get your first
client that's 500 bucks a month use
those first five hundred dollars by
screaming frog by SEM rush or hrs
whatever you prefer buy those tools and
invest in your own business in the first
month then have those conversations but
don't think you need to buy the tools
before you get your first client you can
pitch them and land them and provide a
lot of value again even if you're a
beginner up front completely for free so
you can use screaming frog obviously I'm
using the paid version here but what I
want to do is take their URL drop it
over here into screaming frog so what I
want to do here in screaming frog is
drop their URL and now a lot of times
what'll happen
I'll get a really good breakdown of
titles and metas but I can already tell
you exactly what just happened here it's
not gonna crawl those because this
website is it's just it's a hot mess so
what I want to do is I want to take a
look and see like what Google actually
has index so if I hop up here and I type
site colon in front of it it'll let me
know so it looks like they are indexing
other pages they do have the shredding
prices and shredding and pricing
containers who do we serve etc it's
gonna be hard to pull with a screaming
frog report and that's really a way that
we want to take a look at it so you can
put together a really pro report but if
you notice here one two three four five
six seven eight total pages only eight
of them are indexed in search again
that's really huge we could just pitch
them on a call with this just talking
through the basics of their website
really what they don't need at this
point is SEO really what they need at
this point is a new website and it's
kind of your responsibility it doesn't
make for a great video on my own but
it's your responsibility to tell them
that what they really need is a new
website you're not gonna be able to rank
this by doing some optimization like you
can't even optimize some of this stuff
so this is a great example of something
that just like an ethical SEO instead of
pitching them trying to make money we
want to actually take a step back and
just let them know hey we noticed this
stuff is really wrong on your website
we'd love to help you with SEO but
here's here's some things I think that
you should take a look at right away
we'd be happy to refer you to some
people who can put together a really
great corporate website for you and this
is actually perfect for the sake of this
video because what I'm gonna do is just
hop right back in here into yellow page
just hit the back button and we're gonna
hop right back into the search and we're
gonna run through the process again
because when you're starting out you're
gonna run this process over and over and
over so as I scroll down a little bit
more what I'm gonna find is a really
good option here to just kind of open up
and what I might even do now at this
point is just open up a couple in
different tabs just in case they don't
pan out so I'll look at this Finkle and
sons
it says that they're consulting
engineers 40 years in business let's
take a look at their website so we
notice already home
Finkle steel they don't have an
optimized homepage definitely a much
better more modern looking website than
what we'd seen previously it looks like
they've already got they have some video
here some other things this is
a good website to take a look at it is
secure let's take a look at when we drop
this into screaming frog let's see how
this looks in fact I'll even open up the
page source because I want to take a
look at it as well when I look here for
title I can see they are using Yoast
which is a good start it shows at least
they have the the sense to know but they
still don't have that optimized when I
look for the description if I could
title that correctly nothing so let's
take a look let's drop them into
screaming frog and see what we find and
see if there's any sort of value that we
can provide for them here so again what
we're going to take a look at here you
can see they have their content the
status code is indexable etc etc and
really what I'm gonna do here in a
second is I'm going to export this drop
it into Google sheets and take a look at
where we can actually provide
opportunity for them so I'm actually
going to export two things I'm going to
export a crawl overview and then I'm
also going to export this in general SEO
elements report so I want to title those
and I'll drop those into Google sheets
and we'll fast forward over there and
I'll show you those as well and show you
how we're gonna format them for the
client so let's talk about how to format
this for a client I like to take out
anything that's gonna lead them down a
rabbit hole or be distracting so I'm
gonna delete the stuff about screaming
frog I'm gonna call this the Finkle SEO
overview now remember I'm only putting
this together if finkles said yes let's
hop on a call yes I'm down for a
strategy session etc etc I'm gonna pull
out everything out of here and notice
I'm highlighting the whole row I like to
pull out everything out of here other
than stuff that we're gonna really be
able to help with so I'm gonna delete
all of these rows and pull it back up to
here so when we look at page titles
again like just doing some quick
formatting making sure here it looks
like they had they don't have any
missing or duplicate page titles we can
commend them on that right good work
good job good for you
we'll make them green and we ran away
now here's some important stuff they're
all of they don't have any meta
descriptions on any of their pages so we
want to highlight that we'll make sure I
always like to color code these because
I really feel like it drives it drives
the point home meta keywords this is
more distraction meta keywords aren't
used in SEO so we're not gonna mess with
those h1 tags h2 tags how are they we're
missing
we have some duplicate all right cool
let's make sure we talk to them about
that h2 tags are missing in duplicate
great let's talk to them about that
their images on the website most of them
are huge and almost all of them are
missing alt text we can talk to them
about that as well
why because having really large images
makes your website extremely slow we
could even show them some free Google
PageSpeed scores or GT metrics com to
show them the PageSpeed scores and show
them how that affects all text we have
to explain to them that anybody using
not only is it bad for SEO but it's also
bad for accessibility anybody using a
screen reader or assistive device is not
going to hire them because their website
the images especially are not accessible
so I like to start here next once so
this is a great kind of starting point
for a report you can usually I can
delete pagination Canonical's and all
the rest of the stuff while it's
extremely helpful there's no reason to
distract with it in this sort of brief
interaction now in terms of this I like
to title this something now that we've
established oh they're gonna ask this
begs the follow-up question Oh tell me
about those meta descriptions tell me
about those titles and how we could make
those better so I like to title this hey
I've already thought that through I
understand titles and meta descriptions
again a little bit we'll delete this row
I like to format this I like to as much
as possible view freeze the first row
just so we can scroll down through and
again like I really want to clean this
data up the content it's not super
helpful for them the status code is not
super helpful all of these things I like
to just give them again like I said the
most important
information the title length can be good
because it can tell them where their
titles are too long
same thing with Meta Description so
pretty much everything after this I want
to delete
so I delete that we can keep the h1s the
h2s we talked about those and then
everything over here I get rid of just
again like there's just no reason to
have it etc and now we can kind of get
into something a little bit more
valuable I'm also going to take this
just for the sake of viewing and clip
the text so they can see it a little bit
more clearly perfect if you want you can
also kind of freeze this first row what
we're going to show them here is like
they have a tremendous amount of stuff
index here right as far as overall pages
not a ton but again we want to show them
like home cold work services etc like
these are not extremely valuable titles
that people are searching for I like to
go a step further even right and kind of
change this like website URL or even
website address let's sleep with URL for
now and give it a little bit of you know
a tad some branding tool whatever your
brand colors are feel like yeah we use a
lot of blue and stuff let's make my
stuff around titles we can make that
like orange we can make my Meta
Description stuff green and just kind of
make this look formatted so that when
they get it they're like wow this person
took at least a minimal amount of time
to think this through it also makes it
much more proud you know
presentable visually appealing for them
I always like to use in the header this
is such a silly thing to do but I like
to use a really dark color sometimes
even black and I think it just gives it
a much more professional aesthetic when
you're showing this to them even though
we've used screaming frog to generate
this I love that it just reeks of being
professional when they receive it like
this so again screaming frog is free if
you're a beginner I'm giving you the
exact step-by-step tools then in kind of
process that I use when I was getting
started if you want to land your first
corporate SEO client this is a great
place to start
then finally hopping back
were to Finkel um take a look about them
you know read about their website read
who they are read what's important to
them like they don't have a bad website
at all but like they're a steel company
they definitely have budget they
definitely do good work they've been in
there for a long time they have a pretty
strong team you can take a look at who
their leadership is right and just see
like Who am I gonna reach out to here
Who am I gonna build a relationship with
you know I would probably reach out to
somebody really smart like let's make
art look super arts already super smart
if he's the VP of Sales and Marketing
that's a two overlapping skill sets that
means he's really good at sales if
you're gonna pitch him and like sell him
from a sales perspective you're gonna be
really good because he works in the
steel industry and he does sales right
the thing is though he's in charge of
both sales and marketing so if you can
take some of that marketing off of his
plate and maybe do something special and
say hey man here's something you can
present to the team here's some things
you could work on I'd love to help with
this you can take a look at his LinkedIn
learn more about that see if you have
something in common like there's so much
stuff again there's another video that
I'll link below about pitching and
proposals and stuff but this is where I
wanted to start is like hey it's not
that hard to get started you can put
together some great resources just
sending them an email just saying hey I
found some opportunities again I'm not
trying to say they're doing things wrong
I'm not trying to shame them in any sort
of way I want to look at it from a sense
of opportunity and if they're willing to
hear out what their opportunities are
that already positions you as an expert
to help them take care of those
opportunities I hope this has been
sincerely helpful for you I would love
it if you would check out if you want to
look at end and exactly how to execute
for clients like this like you're
getting clients how do I actually
fulfill services for these clients what
should my process be and thinking this
through if you have any questions about
how to get SEO clients please leave
those in the description below I will
answer them perfectly I want to be the
person that I had when I was getting
started when I reached out to Glen Alsip
from Viper chill when I reached out to a
nice an y'all from green room creative
and I got these amazing super smart men
who helped me get my first clients I
want to be that for you so if you're
trying to land SEO clients let me know
in the comments below what questions you
have I will answer every single comment
check out the 1 ranking away challenge
it's free it runs through everything
from site performance to creating
content based on search intent and then
getting links to that content everything
you would need to do for a client end to
end whether you're a beginner or a
veteran I guarantee you're gonna learn
something from it you can check that out
100 days of SEO calm / challenge I've
been Brendan Huffer don't forget to work
hard be nice people and don't get too
lost trying to create something that
matters